Chp02 Building blocks
-----



Structure data
----
Maps are the go-to type for managing key-value structures of an arbittray size.

2.4.10 toher built-in types
----
* A `reference` is an almost unique piece of information in a BEAM instance.
  It's generated by calling `Kernel.make_ref/0`(or make_ref). According to the
  Elixir documentation, a reference will reoccur generation starts from the
  beginning. so its uniquenesss is guaranteed only during the lifetime of the
  BEAM instance.
* A `process identifier`(PID) is used to indentify an Erlang process.
* A `port indentifier` is important when using ports.

2.3.5 Imports and aliases
------
Importing, `import`, a module allows you to call its public functions without prefixing them with the module name:
```
defmodule MyModule do
  import IO

  def my_funtion do
    puts "Calling imported function."
  end
end
```
`alias` makes it possible to reference a module under a different name:
```
defmodule MyModule do
  alias IO, as: MyIO

  def my_function do
    MyIO.puts("Calling imported function.")
  end
end
```
Aliases can be useful if a module has a long name. 

2.3.6 Module attributes
----

```circle.ex
defmodule Circle do
  @moduledoc "Implements basic circle functions"
  @pi 3.14159

  @doc "Computes the area of a circle"
  def area(r), do: r*r*@pi

  @doc "Computes the circumference of a circle"
  def circumference(r), do: 2*r*@pi
end
```

Note:
Here's a quick way to do it.
run `elixirc circle.ex`. This will generate the file `Elixir.Circle.beam`.
Next, start the `iex` shell from the same folder.

```
iex> Code.fetch_docs(Circle)

iex> h Circle
Implements basic circle functions

iex> h Circle.area
Computes the area of a circle
```

Type specifications
----
`Type specifications`(typespecs) are another important feature based on attributes.

2.4.2 Atoms
----
`Atoms` are literally named constants. They're simliar to symbols in Ruby or enumerations of C/C++.

An atom consists of two parts: the `text` and the `value`.

Aliases
You can omit the beginning colons and start with an uppercase character:
`AnAtom`
This is alled an `alias`, and at compile time, it's transformed into 
`:\"Elixir.AnAtom\"`.
```
iex> AnAtom == :"Elixir.AnAtom"
true
```

2.4.12 IO lists
----
An IO list is a special sort of list that's useful for incrementally building output
that will be forwarded to an I/O device, such as a network or a file. 
Each element of an I/O list must be one of the following:
* An integer in the range of 0 to 255
* A binary
* An IO list

2.5 Operators
----

2.6 Macro
----

2.7 Understanding the runtime
-----
